I"1<p>A few weeks ago while interviewing a developer for a position at Codelitt, he only had one question for me “Would I be the one creating the design?” As we were on a call he may have thought that my video froze, because it took me a while to realize that he was serious about it. I kept wondering myself “Why would a developer ask that?” After I came out of the shock, my answer was a simple one “Of course not, we are not savages here.” He laughed, I laughed, but after the interview was over I couldn’t stop thinking about it. While trying to understand it,  I had flashbacks of similar situations I’ve seen in the past.
Not so long ago, I had a friend that was starting a marketing agency, and she needed a developer. Being the closest reference to the market she reached out to me for guidance about how to hire a software engineer. Aware that she didn’t have any experience with web development, I asked about her plans for the team. At the time I assumed that when it comes to web development it is natural to expect a designer on the team. I couldn’t have been more wrong. When we started discussing the team, and I brought the point about the designer, her answer was 
“If the engineer is good he will bring the designer with him or design himself.” - A friend of mine
After I explained how it isn’t like that to her, we agreed to disagree. Needless to say, her agency never kicked off. 
By the end of the meeting with the candidate, although I was happy with the fact that nowadays I always have a design by my side, I still wanted an answer to the question
Is a designer in my team enough to guarantee a nice looking output and a maintainable stylesheet?
After some careful consideration, and comparing situations across projects I came to the conclusion that no, having a design in my team isn’t enough. The reason is simple, just adding a specialist to a team doesn’t solve any problem if there is no process behind that. Let me give you an example:
Reviewing one of our oldest projects I came across this jewel. Below you have the colors.sass file</p>
:ET